---
id: EhJapEccUI0e30nn5BD7C
title: Javadoc
desc: ""
updated: 1646334178005
created: 1643142150114
---

Javadoc is a tool that generates HTML documentation (similar to [these reference pages](https://java.sun.com)) from Javadoc comments in the code.

## Javadoc comments

- Javadoc recognizes special comments `/** .... */` which are highlighted blue by many themes (regular comments `//` and `/* ... */` are highlighted green).
- Javadoc allows you to attach descriptions to classes, constructors, fields, interfaces and methods in the generated HTML documentation by placing Javadoc comments directly before their declaration statements.

## Example with (only) description

```java
/** Class Description of MyClass */
public class MyClass {
    /** Field Description of myIntField */
    public int myIntField;
    /** Constructor Description of MyClass() */
    public MyClass() {
        // Do something ...
    }
}
```

- By default, text in a Javadoc comment will act as the description of the class, file, method, or field it is above.

## Javadoc tags

- Tags are keywords recognized by Javadoc which define the type of information that follows
- Tags come after the description (separated by a new line)
- Common tags include...
  - `@author [name]`
  - `@version [number or date]`
  - `@param [arg name] [arg description]`
  - `@return [description]`
  - `@exception [exception name] [reason]`
  - `@throws [exception name] [reason]`
  - `@deprecated [alternative]` - marks the target as deprecated (should not be used in future work)
    - Not to be confused with `@Deprecated` (which ironically is considered deprecated in favor of Javadoc)

^tags

### Example with tags

```java
/**
* Description of JavaDoc sample MyClass
* @author John Doe
* @author Jane Doe
* @version 6.0z Build 9000 Jan 3, 2018.
*/
public class MyClass {
    /** Description of myIntField */
    public int myIntField;

    /**
    * Description of the constructor MyClass()
    * @throws MyException Description of myException
    */
    public MyClass() throws myException {
        // some statements...
    }

    /**
    * Description of myMethod(int a, String b)
    * @param a Description of a
    * @param b Description of b
    * @return Description of c
    */
    public Object myMethod(int a, String b) {
        Object c;
        // some statements...
        return c;
    }
}
```

## Running Javadoc

- To run Javadoc, simply run `javadoc [args] [files]` in the command line, and HTML will be generated in the current directory
- Javadoc provides a variety of options as well...
  - `-author` - generated documentation will include an author section
    - This generally isn't used in production of closed-source projects
  - `-classpath [path]` - specifies path to search for referenced `.class` files.
  - `-classpathlist [path];[path];...;[path]` - specifies a list location (separated
    by ";") to search for referenced `.class` files.
  - `-d [path]` - specifies where generated documentation will be saved.
  - `-private` - generated documentation will include private fields and
    methods (only public and protected ones are included by default).
  - `-sourcepath [path]` - specifies path to search for `.java` files to generate
    documentation form.
  - `-sourcepathlist [path];[path];...;[path]` - specifies a list location
    (separated by ";") to search for `.java` files to generate documentation
    form.
  - `-version` - generated documentation will include a version section

## Additional features

### Links

Javadoc comments can include rich links to other classes within a project using the syntax `{@link Thing}`.

### Documentation

Official documentation for Javadoc can be found [here](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/javadoc-137458.html).
